docs/source/user_guide/reference.rst, before:

***************************************
Reference Section
***************************************

Contacting an Admin
==============================
This function allows you to contact an admin

Warnings & Cautions
##############################
Make sure that the email is typed correctly so that the admin can get back to you.

Procedures
##############################
Follow the steps below to contact an admin

1. Click on your username dropdown in the top right of the app.

2. Click on the "Contact Admin" option.

3. Enter the relevant information into the form.

4. Click the "submit" button to send the message.  

Possible Errors
##############################


Reporting an error/issue
==============================
This function allows you to report issues or errors you encounter.

Warnings & Cautions
##############################

Procedures
##############################
Follow the steps below to report an issue

1. Click on your username dropdown in the top right of the app.

2. Click on the "Contact Admin" option.

3. Click on the hyperlink provided at the top of the page.

4. Click the "New Issue" button.

5. Enter the relevant information into the form.

6. Click "Submit new issue".

Possible Errors
##############################

Commit message:

switch to warnings, fix actions, clean up unused reference headings

docs/source/user_guide/reference.rst, after:

***************************************
Reference Section
***************************************

Contacting an Admin
==============================
This function allows you to contact an admin if you have a request or user-specific issue

Procedures
##############################
Follow the steps below to contact an admin

1. Click on your username dropdown in the top right of the app.

2. Click on the "Contact Admin" option.

3. Enter the relevant information into the form.

4. Click the "submit" button to send the message.  


Reporting an error/issue
==============================
This function allows you to report issues or errors you encounter.


Procedures
##############################
Follow the steps below to report an issue

1. Click on your username dropdown in the top right of the app.

2. Click on the "Contact Admin" option.

3. Click on the hyperlink provided at the top of the page.

4. Click the "New Issue" button.

5. Enter the relevant information into the form.

6. Click "Submit new issue".
